<h4>FSA</h4>
A finite state automaton (FSA) is a model of computation with an extremely limited amount of memory which is not expandable during run time. 

<h6>Example</h6>
Consider a railway level crossing which controls the flow of vehicular traffic across a railway track. There is clearly some system that controls the barrier. The control system for the level has sensors to detect oncoming trains, to detect if a vehicle is on the crossing and actuators to close the barriers and signal to the train driver of hazards. Control system has some simple rules such as "if there is oncoming train detected and no vehicle detected on crossing then close barrier", "if there is no oncoming train detected then open the barrier" and "if there is an oncoming train detected and there is a vehicle detected on the crossing, warn train driver".

The controller is in one of three states: "barrier closed", "barrier open", "warning of oncoming vehicle". Controller will transition, or move, between states based on what sensors detect. Because of simple nature of such controls, make them ideal for safety critical systems as it is possible to reason about their correct operation.

FSA appear in a variety of places in field of CS. For example, the lifecycle of a process in an operating system, each time grep executable is used, a FSA is created to match string fragments. 

In abstract model, the machines we consider process strings - sequences of symbols from some defined alphabet. Automaton will start processing the string one symbol at a time. At each symbol the automaton will read the symbol and will transition to a new state. When the automaton has processed all symbols in the string the output of the automaton is determined by examining which state the machine ended in. Automaton either accepts or rejects a string. 