A language *A* is **Regular** if there exists a deterministic finite state automaton *M* such that L(M) = A.

Here L(M) denotes the set of strings which the finite state automaton *M* accept, also called the language that *M* defines.

New model of computation:
Non-Deterministic FSA is a 5-tuple (Q, Σ, δ, q<sub>0</sub>, F) where:
1. **Q** is a finite set called **states**,
2. **Σ** is a finite set called **alphabet**
3. **δ** : Q x Σ<sub>∈</sub> -> P(Q) is the **transition function**
4. **q**<sub>0</sub> ∈ Q is the **start state**
5. **F** ⊆ Q is the set of **accepting states**

Where Σ<sub>∈</sub> = Σ ∪ {ϵ} 

Let N = (Q, Σ, δ, q<sub>0</sub>, F) be a non-deterministic finite automaton and *w* be a string over the alphabet Σ. We say that *N* accepts *w* if we can write *w* = y<sub>1</sub>,...,y<sub>n</sub> where y<sub>i</sub> ∈ Σ<sub>∈</sub> for 1 <= i <= n and there exists a sequence of states r<sub>0</sub>,...,r<sub>n</sub> where r<sub>i</sub> ∈ Q where 0 <= i <= n, such that:
1. r<sub>0</sub> = q<sub>0</sub>
2. r<sub>i+1</sub> ∈ δ(r<sub>i</sub>, w<sub>i+1</sub>), for 0 <= i <= n - 1,
3. r<sub>n</sub> ∈ F
<h4>Theorem (Equivalence)</h4>
Theory: Every non-deterministic finite automaton has an equivalent deterministic finite automaton.

**Proof**:

Let N = (Q, Σ, δ, q<sub>0</sub>, F) be a non-deterministic finite automaton that recognises the language *L*. We will construct a deterministic finite automaton D = (Q', Σ, δ', q<sub>0</sub>', F') that recognises *L*. Let us first consider the easier case where N contains no ∈ transitions. Will later extend this construction to allow ∈ transitions.
1. Q' = P(Q)
2. For R ∈ Q' and a ∈ Σ, let δ'(R, a) = {q ∈ Q | q ∈ δ(r, a) for some r ∈ R}
3. q<sub>0</sub>' = {q<sub>0</sub>}
4. F' = {R ∈ Q' | R contains an accepting state of N}
This construction allows a deterministic finite automaton to emulate a non-deterministic finite automaton which contains no ∈ transitions.

To extend this idea to allow ∈ transitions, we define set E(R) to be set of states that can be reached from members R by following zero or more ∈ transitions. Note that E(R) ∈ Q'. We replace the previously defined transition function with the following:

δ'(R, a) = {q ∈ Q | q ∈ E(δ(r, a)) for some r ∈ R}

Must also redefine the set q<sub>0</sub>'. The redefinition includes all states that are reachable from q<sub>0</sub> via zero or more ∈ transitions.

q<sub>0</sub>' = E({q<sub>0</sub>})

Automaton D accepts a string w if and only if N accepts w. At every step of the computation of D it is in the state that represents the set of possible states that N would be in having read the same portion of input.